when the Lord your God brings you into
the land which you go to possess and has
cast out many nations before you the
Hittites and the girgashites and the
analytes and the Canaanites and the
parasites and the highlights and the
jebusites seven nations greater and
mightier than you and when the Lord your
God delivers them over to you you shall
conquer them and utterly destroy them
you shall make no covenant with them nor
show mercy to them nor shall you make
marriages with them you shall not give
your daughter to their son nor take
their daughter for your son for they
will turn your sons away from following
me to serve other gods so the anger of
the Lord will be aroused against you and
destroy you suddenly but thus you shall
deal with them you shall destroy their
altars and break down their sacred
pillars
and cut down their wooden images and
burn their carved images with fire for
you are holy people to the Lord your God
the Lord your God has chosen you to be a
people for himself a special treasure
above all the peoples on the face of the
earth the Lord did not set his love on
you nor choose you because you were more
in number than any other people for you
were the least of all peoples but
because the Lord loves you and because
he would keep the oath which he swore to
your father's the Lord has brought you
out with a mighty hand and redeemed you
from the house of bondage from the hand
of Pharaoh king of Egypt therefore know
that the Lord your God He is God
the faithful God who keeps covenant and
mercy for a thousand generations with
those who love him and keep his
Commandments and he repays those who
hate him to their face to destroy them
he will not be slack with him who hates
him
he will repay him to his face
therefore you shall keep the commandment
the statutes and the judgments which I
command you today to observe them then
it shall come to pass because you
listened to these judgments and heat and
do them that the Lord your God will keep
with you the Covenant and the mercy
which he swore to your father's and he
will love you and bless you and multiply
you he will also bless the fruit of your
womb and the fruit of your land your
grain and your new wine and your oil the
increase of your cattle and the
offspring of your flock in the land of
which he swore to your father's to give
you you shall be blessed above all
peoples there shall not be a male or
female Darren above you or among your
life stop and the Lord will take away
from you all sickness and will afflict
you with none of the terrible diseases
of Egypt which you have known but will
lay them on all those who hate you also
you shall destroy all the people soon
the Lord your God delivers over to you
your I shall have no pity on them
nor shall you serve their gods for the
Hat will be a snare to you if you should
say in your heart these nations are
greater than I how can I dispossessed
them you shall not be afraid of them but
you shall remember well what the Lord
your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt
the great trials which your eyes saw the
signs and the wonders the mighty hand
and the outstretched arm by which the
Lord your God brought you out so shall
the Lord your God do to all the peoples
of whom you are afraid moreover the Lord
your God will send the Hornet among them
until those who are left to hide
themselves from you are destroyed
you shall not be terrified of them for
the Lord your God the great and awesome
God is among you
and the Lord your God will drive out
those nations before you little by
little you will be unable to destroy
them at once
lest the beasts of the field become too
numerous for you but the Lord your God
will deliver them over to you and will
inflict defeat upon them until they are
destroyed and he will deliver their
kings into your hand and you will
destroy their name from under heaven no
one shall be able to stand against you
until you have destroyed them you shall
learn the carved images of their gods
with fire you shall not covet the silver
or gold that is on them nor take it for
yourselves lest you be snared by it
for it is an abomination to the Lord
your God nor shall you bring an
abomination into your house lest you be
doomed to destruction like it you shall
utterly detest it and utterly abhor it
for it is an accursed thing